During this COVID-19 pandemic,
it’s not hard for negative feelings
to begin to form in our minds.
We may begin to think a lot
about things that we were able
to do in the past.
For us at Bethel, maybe it’s thinking
about some of the speaking assignments
that we had in various congregations,
being with different brothers and sisters
and getting to meet different ones.
Maybe we even think about when
we served as Bethel representatives
at circuit assemblies or regional conventions
with large, large crowds
of our brothers and sisters.
Elders in the field may think
about the work that they did
for many, many years on convention committees
or in organizing large departments,
either at conventions or at assemblies.
Pioneers might be thinking
about what they did
during the special metropolitan
public witnessing program
or just in public witnessing in general.
And then, there are all of the pioneers
that have commuted to Bethel,
some for many years, to support our work.
Well, all of these
involve different assignments,
but there’s one thing
that they all have in common.
We all have had to hit the “pause button”
on all of these assignments
that we love so much.
Well, sometimes we may begin
to ask ourselves,
‘Does the fact that I no longer
‘can do these assignments
that I loved so much
‘mean that somehow I’ve lost value,
that I’m not as precious to Jehovah anymore?’
Well, this is where our text
can be so helpful to us.
Let’s read it again.
Let’s go in our Bibles
to Philippians chapter 2,
and let’s read together verses 5 to 7.
Let’s read all three verses.
It says: “Keep this mental attitude in you
“that was also in Christ Jesus,
“who, although he was existing in God’s form,
“gave no consideration to a seizure,
“namely, that he should be equal to God.
“No, [but now let’s focus on this, No,]
“but he emptied himself
“and took a slave’s form
and became human.”
Well now, it’s just a few words there,
but can you imagine
what was involved in that last expression:
“He emptied himself
and took a slave’s form”?
It’s really hard for us
even to begin to imagine
the position that Jesus occupied
in the heavens before he came to earth.
Maybe we get a little glimpse of it
if we go to our Bibles.
Let’s read together Colossians chapter 1,
and let’s look at verse 15.
Now speaking about Jesus, it says:
“He is the image of the invisible God,
“the firstborn of all creation;
“because by means of him
“all other things were created
in the heavens and on the earth,
“the things visible and the things invisible,
“whether they are thrones
or lordships or governments or authorities.
“All other things
“have been created through him and for him.
“Also, he is before all other things,
and by means of him all other things
were made to exist.”
Well, yes, as the master worker,
Jesus was used by his Father
in the creation of the universe
and all of the things in it.
John 1:3 says:
“All things came into existence through him,
“and apart from him not even one thing
came into existence.”
What an amazing role Jesus played in heaven!
But Jesus was willing
to give up that position in heaven
and accept the assignment
that Jehovah had for him here on the earth.
But now, what did accepting
that assignment involve?
Now, let’s look at three different things.
We might be finding the lockdown challenging,
especially after seven months.
But consider this:
Jesus had to be in the womb of Mary
as a helpless embryo for nine months.
Can you imagine what
a change that was for him?
Let’s consider a second thing:
Jesus had been the Spokesman
for Jehovah in heaven,
but now Jesus would have to learn to speak
and be taught by imperfect humans.
Let’s consider a third one:
In heaven, his associates had been faithful,
powerful, heavenly spirit creatures.
But when on earth, who were his associates?
Fishermen, former prostitutes,
just the very common, simple, humble people
whom the Pharisees in John 7:49
called “accursed.”
Well, what do you think?
Was that a major change, for Jesus
to leave his heavenly position
and come to the earth?
He truly “emptied himself,”
as Philippians 2:7 says.
But now, here’s the question,
Did Jesus feel that somehow
he had lost value with Jehovah
because he had gone
through such a huge change
in his assignment and now
was a human on earth?
Not for a moment.
But why?
Well, will you open your Bibles?
Let’s read together this thought
in the book of John chapter 8,
and let’s look together here at verse 29.
Jesus said: “And the One who sent me
“is with me;
“he did not abandon me to myself,
because I always do
the things pleasing to him.”
Isn’t that a beautiful verse?
You see, Jesus knew
that the work that he was doing
was the work his Father had asked him to do.
It was not the same work
that he had done when he was in heaven,
but he was still always doing
the things that were pleasing to his Father.
And for that reason, Jesus knew in his heart
that Jehovah God would certainly
never abandon him.
He kept busy working hard
in his present assignment, not focusing
on what he had done in the past.
Well now, brothers and sisters,
what do we learn from this?
We’ve all had some changes
(some of them even major changes)
in our assignments because of the pandemic.
But our primary goal has never changed.
Just like Jesus,
we continually seek to do the things
pleasing to our heavenly Father, Jehovah.
Now, we can’t go from door to door right now.
And we can’t do public witnessing,
and we can’t meet at our Kingdom Halls
or Assembly Halls, and so on.
But because we all love Jehovah,
we find ways,
even in the midst of this pandemic,
to do things that please him.
Now, The Watchtower
made an interesting comment.
The Watchtower  of August 2020,
page 25—here’s what it said:
“Do you get discouraged
“because you currently do not have
the same privileges
“of service that you had in the past?
“If so, you will be happier
“if you change your focus and concentrate
“on what you can do right now
“to serve Jehovah and your brothers.
“Stay busy, using your gifts
and abilities to help others,
and you will find joy
as you build up the congregation.”
Well, that’s what we’re all trying to do.
And Jehovah loves us because we’re trying,
and he blesses our efforts.
Now, take this experience
that one sister had in the United States.
She had sent out some letters
as a part of her ministry,
and imagine how surprised
this dear sister was
to receive a letter from a lady
that we’re going to call Mary.
Here’s what this letter said:
“Hello, my name is Mary,
“and I want to thank you
for sending me a beautiful letter.
“I was a Jehovah’s Witness
between the ages of 9 and 12.
“My mother was a full-time pioneer.
“We would go door to door daily.
“But as young as I was
and already having the taste
“of birthdays and holidays,
I left my mom to live with my dad.
“My mom pioneered for over 25 years.
“She died in 2007.
“Though at my young age
I was not close to her,
“in my adult years, we became best friends.
“To her dying day, she would tell me,
“‘Mary, return to Jehovah.’
“I just never felt I could live up
to the standards.
“I didn’t want to be a hypocrite.
“That’s my big issue in not studying.
“You can’t keep one toe in.
“It’s all or nothing.
“After my mom died, at her memorial,
“she had a sister give me a Bible.
“And on the front of the Bible she inscribed:
“‘To Mary, from Mom.
“Return to me in Paradise.’
“I want to see her so bad,
“and I know the only way to do so
is to return to Jehovah, but I get scared.
“What if I can’t do it right?
“I don’t want to mess up.
“Every night, I say my prayers
to Jehovah as I have done.
“But on August 19, 2020, I said my prayers,
but this time I asked Jehovah:
“‘Jehovah, you know how I feel,
and you know my heart.
“I want to connect to a church,
or a religion, to praise you.’
“I said: ‘Jehovah, you know me.
“It almost has to be a brick to hit me
to understand what’s right.’
“On August 20th, the very next day,
“I went to get the mail,
and I received your letter.
“I could not believe it.
“I was so shocked
that I actually sat down and thought:
“‘Wow! Now what do I do?’
“Jehovah answered; now I need
to follow through, and I’m nervous.
“I hope that you can help me
take the steps I need to take.
“Again, I’m scared, but I hope
that I can make the changes I need to make.
Sincerely, Mary.”
Well, that’s the power of one letter.
It’s true, we’ve had
to press that “pause button”
on many of the assignments
that we have just loved doing.
But does that mean
that we’ve lost value with Jehovah?
Jehovah is still with us.
We have not lost any value with him,
and he is not going to abandon us.
So, what do we need to do?
Like Jesus, let’s not focus
on what we used to do,
but instead, let’s do everything
we can do right now
to do all the things pleasing
to our wonderful heavenly Father, Jehovah.